# SearchBar Pattern

Hi there,

In last post we checked out the highly useful ***CRUD Pattern***. In this post
we will carry our React journey forward with the ***SearchBar Pattern***.
I formed this pattern while working on a project where i implemented it in three
different components and it made  *life easy* as any change to be made or an
additional functionality implementation was done in the common *SearchBar*. we will use
the **library app** (previosly used for CRUD Pattern) which has *Books* and *Members* sections
to demonstrate the use case of our common *SearchBar*.

*SearchBar* is an abstract common component used in both Books and Members section
of the library app. Suppose, we want to search a book by title in Books sections and
we also want to search a member by name in Members section, so instead of having two
Search Boxes each with its own implementation(and maintainance) we will implement a
common Abstract *SearchBar* that will be able to handle search functionality of both(or
any number of) sections. Imagine, if our app has five sections, so should we be implementing a
seperate Search Box and do the modifications in each one of them or should we be using our
all-inclusive *SearchBar* that works well with all of them. Life will be easier when we have to
make changes only to our *SearchBar* or when we add new section to our library app, as we
just have to mount our *SearchBar* into that new section or any other section. Remember, just a
*"single line of code"* is all we need to have that wonderful search functionality enabled,
thanks to our common *SearchBar*. So, let's go and have it implemented and make  *life easy*.

> Library App Overview

    Library App

        1. Books
           - title, author, year, isbn

        2. Members
            - name, phone, email, address, city,
              state, zip code


Each section will have fields used for search. as shown above, we can search Books section by title
or Members sections by name (and so on) and we can keep adding sections with fields. The great thing about our
*SearchBar* is we just have to mount it in newly added section and it will work without any modifications
into its own code. We will be passing respective API to fetch records and that's it. So we can have any number
of sections with any number of fields in our app and we just have to mount our *SearchBar* and provide searchAPI.
*Brilliant, isn't it?*

> *"Single Line of Code"* is all what we need

```javascript
<Books>
    <SearchBar searchAPI={this.props.getBooksAPIAction} />  // searchAPI="http://localhost:8000/books/"
</Books>

<Member>
    <SearchBar searchAPI={this.props.getMembersAPIAction} /> // searchAPI="http://localhost:8000/members/"
</Member>
```

> *SearchBar* Implementation

Our *SearchBar* will have an inputField to enter the searchTerm and a Search button to
submit the searchTerm. searchTerm is set into state by onChangeHandler and search button
passes this searchTerm to searchAPI provided by parent component.
multifield search (eg. title=ReactBook&year=2020) is also featured in our *SearchBar*.

> *SearchBar* Code

```javascript
import React from "react";

class SearchBar extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      searchTerm: ""
    };
  }

  onChangeHandler = e => {
    this.setState({ searchTerm: e.target.value });
  };

  search = () => {
    this.props.searchAPI(this.state.searchTerm);
  };

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <input
          placeholder="key1=value1&key2=value2"
          onChange={this.onChangeHandler}
        />
        <input type="button" value="Search" onClick={this.search} />
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default SearchBar;
```


I hope you enjoyed this post(and the previous ones too) from our React Voyage and convinced to utilize this
brilliant ***SearchBar Pattern***. We will carry our React Expedition forward in the next post.
Till then, use these wonderful patterns and make  *life easy*.

Good Bye!


source code:

frontend (React): https://github.com/hyphenOs/library-frontend

backend (Django REST): https://github.com/hyphenOs/library-backend

Interested in interesting stuff?

check out https://hyphenos.io

